\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename spell.info
@settitle GNU Spell
@finalout
@setchapternewpage odd
@include version.texi
@set EDITION @value{VERSION}
@set UPDATED April 6, 1996
@c %**end of header

@ifinfo
This file documents GNU Spell, a clone of Unix @code{spell}.

Copyright (C) 1996 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Foundation.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title GNU Spell
@subtitle Unix spell clone
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for GNU Spell version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author by Thomas Morgan

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1996 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Foundation.
@end titlepage

@node Top, , , (dir)

@ifinfo
This file documents GNU Spell, a clone of Unix @code{spell}.  This is
edition @value{EDITION} of the GNU Spell manual, last updated on
@value{UPDATED}.

@menu
* Overview::		Preliminary information.
* Invoking Spell::	How to run Spell.
* Example::             An example run.
* Problems::		Reporting bugs.
* Concept Index::	Index of concepts.
@end menu
@end ifinfo

@node Overview, Invoking Spell, , Top
@chapter Overview
@cindex overview

GNU Spell is a spell checking program which prints each misspelled word
on a line of its own.  It is designed as a clone of the standard Unix
@code{spell} program, and implemented as a wrapper for Ispell.  Spell
accepts as its arguments a list of files to read from.  Within that
list, the magical file name @samp{-} causes Spell to read from standard
input.  In addition, when called with no file name arguments, Spell
assumes that it should process standard input.

Spell is most useful when used in conjunction with other programs,
because its output is minimalistic.  Human users are usually more
comfortable with verbose output.  @inforef{Top, The Ispell Manual,
ispell}, for an screen-oriented spelling checker.

@node Invoking Spell, Example, Overview, Top
@chapter Invoking Spell
@cindex invoking
@cindex version
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help
@cindex getting help

The format for running GNU Spell is:

@example
spell [@var{option}]@dots{} [@var{file}]@dots{}
@end example

Spell supports the following options:

@table @samp
@item --version
@itemx -V
Print the version number of Spell on the standard error output and then
exit.

@item --british
@itemx -b
Use the British dictionary rather than American.  Unavailable unless
this dictionary was installed with Ispell.

@item --dictionary=@var{file}
@itemx -d @var{file}
Use the named dictionary.

@item --help
@itemx -h
Print an informative help message describing the options and then exit.

@item --ispell=@var{program}
@itemx -i @var{program}
Call @var{program} as Ispell.

@item --all-chains
@itemx -l
Ignored; for compatibility.

@item --number
@itemx -n
Print the line number of each misspelled word along with the word
itself.

@item --print-file-name
@itemx -o
Print the file name which contained the misspelled words on each line
before the word.

@item --stop-list=@var{file}
@itemx -s @var{file}
Ignored; for compatibility.

@item --verbose
@itemx -v
When a word is not found in its literal form in the dictionary, it is
printed.

@item --print-stems
@itemx -x
Ignored; for compatibility.

@end table

@node Example, Problems, Invoking Spell, Top
@chapter Example
@cindex example
@cindex sample

Using GNU Spell is quite simple.  Here's an example, which you can try
when in the directory of Spell's source code.

@example
$ spell --print-file-name --number sample
sample:1: Tihs
sample:1: si
sample:1: fo
sample:1: Splel
sample:1: worsd
sample:1: spellled
sample:1: worng
sample:2: fi
sample:2: cna
sample:2: dael
sample:2: fiel
sample:2: Foo
sample:2: bza
sample:2: baz
@end example

The words printed on standard output are all the (purposely) misspelled
words in @file{sample}.  Notice the options @samp{--print-file-name} and
@samp{--number} (@pxref{Invoking Spell}).  They are responsible for the
prefix you see on each line, @samp{sample:@var{lineno} }.

@node Problems, Concept Index, Example, Top
@chapter Problems
@cindex bugs
@cindex problems
@cindex suggestions

If you find a bug in GNU Spell, or have any questions, comments, or
suggestions about it, please send electronic mail to
@samp{bug-gnu-utils@@prep.ai.mit.edu}.  When sending bug reports,
include the version number, which you can find by running @w{@samp{spell
--version}}.  Also include in your message the operating system you are
using, the output that the program produced, the output you expected,
which options you invoked Spell with, and any other details that you
think may be useful.  Keep in mind that facts are more usually more
helpful than guesses.@refill

@node Concept Index, , Problems, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

@printindex cp

@shortcontents
@contents
@bye
